memory-bank/progress.md, before:

# Project Progress — vulnhuntr-volt

## Completed Milestones

### 1. Agent Orchestration System (2026-02-06)
- Created `.agents/AGENT.md` main orchestrator for VS Code Copilot
- Created 5 sub-agents in `.agents/sub-agents/`
- Created `.vscode/settings.json` with agent integration

### 2. Core VulnHuntr Workflow (2026-02-06)
- Ported all 7 vuln-specific prompt templates
- Created Zod schemas, repo tools, symbol finder, GitHub tools, reporters, MCP integration
- Created initial 5-step workflow chain
- Build passing (0 errors)

### 3. Template Cleanup (2026-02-07)
- Removed weather.ts, expense approval workflow, template references

### 4. Gap Analysis (2026-02-07)
- Comprehensive comparison of 23 Python + 9 TypeScript files
- 14 missing features identified

### 5. Full Feature Implementation (2026-02-07)
- 6 new modules: LLM layer, cost tracker, config, checkpoint, GitHub issues, webhook
- Enriched schemas (18+ fields), enriched reporters (SARIF/JSON/MD/HTML/CSV)
- Network patterns expanded (~50→~120), workflow fully wired
- Build: 0 errors, 190.19 KB

### 6. VoltAgent Best Practices Refactoring (2026-02-07)
Complete rewrite of `src/workflows/vulnhuntr.ts` from sequential to idiomatic VoltAgent:

**Research:** Read all 14 bundled workflow docs, 3 skill files, GitHub examples. Identified 12 anti-patterns.

**Anti-patterns fixed:**
- Sequential-only `andThen` → `andAll` + `andForEach` + `andWhen` + `andTap`
- Monolithic 300-line step → extracted `analyzeFile()` function
- No shared state → `VulnHuntrState` interface via `workflowState`/`setWorkflowState`
- `(data as any)` casts → clean data-flow returns + state-based service access
- No logging separation → 5 `andTap` side-effect steps
- No parallelism → 2x `andAll` (discover+readme, 6 reports)
- No iteration primitive → `andForEach` with `items`/`map`/`concurrency: 1`
- No conditional steps → `andWhen` for clone cleanup
- Minimal hooks → comprehensive lifecycle hooks (5 hooks)
- No retry policy → `retryConfig` + `retries: 2` on clone step
- No `getStepData` → used in finalize for safe data recovery

**New architecture:**
```
setup-repo → andTap(log) → andAll(discover + readme) → prepare-analysis
→ andTap(log) → andForEach(analyze-files) → collect-findings → andTap(log)
→ andAll(6 reports) → andTap(log) → andWhen(cleanup) → finalize → andTap(summary)
```

**Build:** 0 errors, 194.30 KB, 102ms. File: 952 lines.

## Pending Milestones
- Runtime test with actual Python repository
- Unit tests for new modules
- CLI entry point
- Production MCP server deployment
- Real webhook/GitHub Issues integration testing
- Verify workflowState behavior in forEach inner steps at runtime

## Update History
- [2026-02-06] Agent orchestration system created
- [2026-02-06] Core VulnHuntr workflow implemented and building
- [2026-02-07] Template cleanup completed
- [2026-02-07] Gap analysis: 14 missing features identified
- [2026-02-07] All 14 missing features implemented, full build passing
- [2026-02-07] VoltAgent best practices refactoring: 12 anti-patterns fixed, full Chain API adopted

Commit message:

fix: andAll data flow bugs + comprehensive E2E test suite (56 tests)
Workflow fixes:
- Fix andAll tuple destructuring (VoltAgent returns array, not merged object)
- Store resumeData in workflowState to survive andAll boundaries
- Fix log-reports to iterate over report tuple array
- Fix andWhen cleanup to check workflowState.isCloned
- Add resumeData field to VulnHuntrState interface
- Remove _resume_data from setup-repo return data

Test suite (56 tests, all passing):
- Chain construction, registration, hooks, execution
- Findings collection, GitHub clone path, budget enforcement
- Checkpoint resume, multi-iteration analysis, error resilience
- Input validation, WorkflowState persistence, result schema
- Provider configuration, single file analysis, vuln type filtering
- Edge cases (empty files, missing README)

Infrastructure:
- vitest v4 with regex alias for .js→.ts resolution
- Partial @voltagent/core mock (Agent mocked, chain API real)
- Constructor mocks use regular functions (vitest v4 compat)

memory-bank/progress.md, after:

# Project Progress — vulnhuntr-volt

## Completed Milestones

### 1. Agent Orchestration System (2026-02-06)
- Created `.agents/AGENT.md` main orchestrator for VS Code Copilot
- Created 5 sub-agents in `.agents/sub-agents/`
- Created `.vscode/settings.json` with agent integration

### 2. Core VulnHuntr Workflow (2026-02-06)
- Ported all 7 vuln-specific prompt templates
- Created Zod schemas, repo tools, symbol finder, GitHub tools, reporters, MCP integration
- Created initial 5-step workflow chain
- Build passing (0 errors)

### 3. Template Cleanup (2026-02-07)
- Removed weather.ts, expense approval workflow, template references

### 4. Gap Analysis (2026-02-07)
- Comprehensive comparison of 23 Python + 9 TypeScript files
- 14 missing features identified

### 5. Full Feature Implementation (2026-02-07)
- 6 new modules: LLM layer, cost tracker, config, checkpoint, GitHub issues, webhook
- Enriched schemas (18+ fields), enriched reporters (SARIF/JSON/MD/HTML/CSV)
- Network patterns expanded (~50→~120), workflow fully wired
- Build: 0 errors, 190.19 KB

### 6. VoltAgent Best Practices Refactoring (2026-02-07)
Complete rewrite of `src/workflows/vulnhuntr.ts` from sequential to idiomatic VoltAgent:

**Research:** Read all 14 bundled workflow docs, 3 skill files, GitHub examples. Identified 12 anti-patterns.

**Anti-patterns fixed:**
- Sequential-only `andThen` → `andAll` + `andForEach` + `andWhen` + `andTap`
- Monolithic 300-line step → extracted `analyzeFile()` function
- No shared state → `VulnHuntrState` interface via `workflowState`/`setWorkflowState`
- `(data as any)` casts → clean data-flow returns + state-based service access
- No logging separation → 5 `andTap` side-effect steps
- No parallelism → 2x `andAll` (discover+readme, 6 reports)
- No iteration primitive → `andForEach` with `items`/`map`/`concurrency: 1`
- No conditional steps → `andWhen` for clone cleanup
- Minimal hooks → comprehensive lifecycle hooks (5 hooks)
- No retry policy → `retryConfig` + `retries: 2` on clone step
- No `getStepData` → used in finalize for safe data recovery

**New architecture:**
```
setup-repo → andTap(log) → andAll(discover + readme) → prepare-analysis
→ andTap(log) → andForEach(analyze-files) → collect-findings → andTap(log)
→ andAll(6 reports) → andTap(log) → andWhen(cleanup) → finalize → andTap(summary)
```

**Build:** 0 errors, 194.30 KB, 102ms. File: 952 lines.

## Pending Milestones
- Runtime test with actual Python repository
- Unit tests for new modules
- CLI entry point
- Production MCP server deployment
- Real webhook/GitHub Issues integration testing
- Verify workflowState behavior in forEach inner steps at runtime

## Update History

- [2026-02-07 2:18:01 AM] [Unknown User] - Decision Made: vitest v4 constructor mock pattern
- [2026-02-07 2:17:53 AM] [Unknown User] - Decision Made: andAll returns tuple, not merged object
- [2026-02-07 2:17:45 AM] [Unknown User] - Fixed workflow bugs and created comprehensive test suite: Major accomplishments in this session:

1. **Fixed andAll data flow bugs in vulnhuntr.ts** (critical production bug):
   - VoltAgent's `andAll` returns a tuple (array), not a merged flat object
   - `prepare-analysis` step was accessing `data.files_to_analyze` and `data.readme_summary` directly from the andAll tuple — now properly destructures `[discoverResult, readmeResult]`
   - Moved `_resume_data` to workflowState so it survives the andAll boundary
   - Fixed `log-reports` to iterate over the report tuple from the second andAll
   - Fixed `andWhen(cleanup)` to check `workflowState.isCloned` instead of lost `data.is_cloned`
   - Added `resumeData` field to VulnHuntrState interface

2. **Fixed constructor mock patterns in tests**:
   - vitest v4 calls `new implementation()` on mockImplementation — arrow functions can't be used with `new`
   - Changed all constructor mocks (CostTracker, BudgetEnforcer, AnalysisCheckpoint) to use regular functions
   - Added partial mock of `@voltagent/core` to mock `Agent` class while keeping `createWorkflowChain` real

3. **Created comprehensive E2E test suite** (56 tests, all passing):
   - Tests cover: chain construction, registration, hooks, execution, findings, GitHub clone, budget enforcement, checkpoint resume, multi-iteration analysis, error resilience, input validation, WorkflowState persistence, result schema, execution metadata, provider configuration, single file analysis, vuln type filtering, edge cases
   - Test configuration: vitest with regex alias for .js→.ts resolution

4. **Build verified**: 0 errors, 194.54 KB, 83ms
- [2026-02-06] Agent orchestration system created
- [2026-02-06] Core VulnHuntr workflow implemented and building
- [2026-02-07] Template cleanup completed
- [2026-02-07] Gap analysis: 14 missing features identified
- [2026-02-07] All 14 missing features implemented, full build passing
- [2026-02-07] VoltAgent best practices refactoring: 12 anti-patterns fixed, full Chain API adopted
